>> Sarah: Okay, layouts in CSS.
So let's talk about before,
I was like, don't worry about code,
don't worry about code.
Now, let's worry about code and kinda talk
about how to make these things a reality.
One of my favorite sites on the Internet
is Grid by Example by Rachel Andrew.
Rachel Andrew does a ton of really great
content about CSS grid and how to use it.
And she does do flex box and
float fallbacks, so even if
you have to support older browsers,
she shows you how to do that as well.
So if you go into the start here,
on her site she has all of
these really amazing videos.
And if you've never heard
Rachel talk before,
she's just got like the nicest voice in
the world, you just sit there and like aw,
Rachael so nice,
it's like really relaxing.
[LAUGH] A lot of times like when I'm
watching coding videos and stuff,
I have to wear headphones, but
this is like, my husband's like,
actually it's okay when Rachel talks.
I don't actually mind how
we met in the background.
She also has a ton of examples and
a ton of patterns and
we're actually going to work off of
one of these little bit later today.
Because I think that if you're not
familiar with grid, it's a really great
place to get started, she has all these
patterns that you can kind of grab and go,
and try things on your own.
It's a really good way of learning
especially because, it's so
hands on you're really
playing with the code.
Another person to follow or
check out if you need to know
about CSS Grid is Jen Simmons.
Jen Simmons has this
Experimental Layout Lab, which is awesome.
She goes through all of
these different crazy cool
ways of laying out text and
just got like a million of them,
and they're all really beautiful and
wonderful.
But the nicest thing is they're really
done in a browser so you can go and
explore them with dev tool.
So you might notice this composition is
kinda like that Swiss Design that we were
talking about earlier, right?
So if I take this apart
Inside the browser.
What I find is she's got a transform
rotate, which I'm not surprised by, right?
She's got like a 45 degree angle.
She basically lays out
the entire composition and
then at the end [SOUND]
kind of puts it into place.
You can see how I in the bottom right
hand corner I kind of undid that and
you can then just see the layout
straight how she probably built it.
I don't know but what I imagine.
And then if you kind of
highlight each one of them,
you can see how she built this grid.
And it's not actually that much code,
that's the kind of a amazing part.
Is you can explore all of her projects,
they're pretty nicely cleanly done.
And you can kinda play with them,
you can break them.
I encourage you to play
with them in the dev tools.
Both Chrome and Firefox have
really good devtools for grid now.
You can see I just literally
hovered over that header wrapper,
and this grid appears.
And you can see which parts
are the grid and which aren't.
You can see there's grid gap, so
spaces in between each piece of the grid,
and those dotted lines
between each one of them.
So that's so cool,
it's such a nice way of learning.
I also, in order to learn grid, started
playing with this site called Grid Garden.
It's like a 28-level
game that it teaches you
grid as you play it, so it starts with
how to start grid columns, start.
And it takes probably
like only a half-hour or
something to go through the entire game.
And you kinda understand Grid a little
bit better as you're working with it.
The thing that's in the right-hand top
corner is the most important thing.
I am not a Grid expert.
I am not Rachel Andrew.
I am not Jen Simmons.
Grid is not the thing that I am and do.
Like I spend much more time working
with like view and JavaScript and stuff.
But I work with Grid enough to like
kind of understand some
basic principles and stuff.
I'm still working on getting better.
So it's okay if you're not,
your also just playing and trying it out.
Grid is actually really a cohesive and
kind of nice to learn.
Grid is also huge,
there's just so much in Grid.
So even if you just learn a few things,
that's okay too.
I was talking to Chris Coyier,
if you know him.
He does CSS-Tricks and
ShopTalk show and a few other things.
He was co-working at
my house with Mary and
Susanne who wrote Suzie,
which was a CSS Grid back in the day.
Now she gives talks like don't
use my grid system, use CSS Grid.
Both of them are awesome people but
I was basically like,
I don't know if I can learn Grid.
It seems really complicated cuz I've seen
all these talks with all of these features
and I was just like [LAUGH] I'm just
gonna stick with life box [LAUGH].
And they were like, you know,
in order to use grid,
you don't need to use all of those things.
You can just do X, Y and Z, and
I was like, I didn't know that.
So you can just start with
kind of simpler systems and
then learn more features
as you get better at it.
So let's check out some of these code
pens that I've prepared for you.